ah there's almost no design for beauty
in aviation the wing location round
windows waste seatbelts why are all
these things exactly that way well
fasten your seat belts you'll get
answers to a lot of questions about
planes 1 how to go faster in line at the
airport it's better to stand in the
leftmost line during registration you're
likely to go faster because most people
are right-handed and intuitively turn
right - why can't you carry liquids on
board hazardous substances can be easily
dissolved in liquids so for safety
reasons only a very small volume of
liquid can't be carried on board a plane
3 why are the wings of most passenger
aircraft located at the bottom of the
plane it's called a low wing firstly if
you install the engine under low wings
it'll be closer to the ground and easier
to repair secondly the wings will take
on part of the shock in case of a hard
landing and if the plane falls into the
water then the wings become a
life-saving pillow by the way a plane
can stay afloat from 10 minutes to 60
hours it all depends on the model of the
plane weather conditions and the pilot
skills for why are the wings of cargo
planes located at the top now this is
called a highway it's easy to load cargo
onto these planes since the hull is very
close to the ground
also it's convenient to land on
airfields with a not so well-prepared
runway debris won't get into the engine
and last but not least such a wing
position has less aerodynamic drag
during the flight and finally 5 why do
many military planes have wings located
in the middle air flows better around
the plane because of this arrangement of
wings
thus the aircraft develops greater speed
6yr most planes white well it turns out
this color best reflects the sun's rays
and the aircraft body doesn't heat up
also the damage is best seen on
white and finally and probably most
importantly white pain is simply cheaper
7yr the turbines under the wings
maintenance of engines located under the
wings is cheaper and takes less time
previously Airlines installed engines in
the tail expensive equipment and much
more time was required to service these
engines the cost of air tickets
immediately decreased when they started
to install engines under the wings 8 can
a plane fly with only one engine yeah
pilots can easily control and land a
plane if one of the engine stops working
the plane will just lean slightly to the
side during the flight but the coolest
thing is that passengers will probably
not even notice it 9 what does a small
triangle on the aircraft walls mean
these triangles are special labels for
flight attendants they mark certain
windows through which flashing
indicators can be seen they signal
retraction of the landing gear and
closing of flaps if the pilot receives a
signal about some problem the flight
attendants quickly find the necessary
windows and figure out the problem and
for passengers this is the place with
the best view of the wings you can get
the best photos here 10 yr seat belt
stretched across your stomach when the
plane gets into turbulence it's tossed a
bit in the air the waist belt will
simply hold you in place in case of a
more severe shake shoulder straps would
require more space between the seats and
this is not justified on a plane in a
car the impact is usually much stronger
so you need that shoulder strap not to
whoosh through the windshield
11 why do flight attendants also have a
shoulder strap that well flight
attendant seats are much less
comfortable than passenger ones they're
narrower and position facing the
passengers flight attendants need extra
protection simply not to fall off their
seats if the plane shakes hard enough
also they have to help indirect people
during potential evacuations and for
that they need to be in top shape
12 what exactly is turbulence all right
imagine a big hot air balloon see that
flamethrower it heats the air which
makes the balloon go up turbulence is
the same hot air kind of like what I
generate but it's created by nature not
by a flamethrower and there is a plane
instead of a balloon that's why you can
feel like you're on a very bad roller
coaster in turbulence also turbulence
can occur if your plane gets into the
wake or exhaust stream left by another
plane 13 why does one of the flight
attendants hold their hand behind their
back when you enter the cabin
well they count the number of incoming
passengers on a special device and check
that all passengers are onboard 14 how
are airplanes protected from lightning
even if lightning strikes the passengers
won't feel it the entire aircraft is
covered with an aluminum coating that
conducts electric current but doesn't
allow it inside the plane all
electronics and fuel tanks are equipped
with additional protection - and of
course all this protection is tested by
simulating lightning strikes 15
why couldn't you use your phone on an
airplane in the past mobile phones were
really dangerous for flights but only
when they had just appeared their radio
signal could disrupt the work of the
electronics on the aircraft
fortunately modern phones can no longer
do this because their communication
functions have changed and airplane mode
has appeared 16 why do some airlines
recommend not using phones even now they
impose phone restrictions because people
should remain vigilant in case of
unforeseen situations onboard it's quite
difficult to get the passengers
attention when they're watching a movie
or playing a game on their smartphone 17
in what cases do oxygen masks fall out
of the ceiling masks don't only fall out
when the plane is falling but when the
air pressure changes - like if the plane
decompresses for some reason air is
getting thinner in the cabin at a
certain altitude so that passengers
don't feel
they put on oxygen masks pilots quickly
dropped to a safe altitude and you can
breathe further without a mask on 18y
our airplane windows round this is a
safety feature if the aircraft windows
were square pressure would accumulate in
the corners possibly leading to damage
with round windows the load is
distributed evenly and doesn't collect
anywhere in particular
nineteen why do landing gear tires not
burst when landing the tires are
designed for a load of four to five
times more than they can experience
during landing the wheel will break
sooner than its tire bursts 20 why do
they do the lights in the cabin
passengers should get used to the
darkness in case of an emergency landing
at night the lights are turned off so
that they can easily navigate while
leaving for a similar reason you are
always asked to open the window shades
so that the flight attendants can see
what's happening outside and choose the
best side for the evacuation 21
why do airline pilots always eat
different foods before a fly well this
is necessary so that if one of them gets
a food poisoning the other could
continue the flight safely 22 what is
the dirtiest place in the cabin nope
it's not the bathroom
it's the tray table from which you eat
it has several times more bacteria than
the toilet seat also some passengers use
this table to change diapers for their
babies oh boy twenty-three why is food
not very tasty on the plane this is not
because the cook is lazy the fact is
that your taste buds change a little at
high altitude they become less sensitive
to flavors 24 is it true that hair and
stubble grow faster on an airplane now
this is not proven by scientists the
myth originated in the first half of the
20th century
soldiers noticed that their stubble had
grown after the flight hence the legend
appeared as for the airplanes themselves
the hair on the aircraft will grow at
the normal rate and planes are normally
shave three times a week actually I made
that up
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]